When working with the DOM,
we need a way for our JavaScript to add,
remove, and update elements.
Unfortunately, here, our functional methods stumbled right out of the gate.
We can't reach the DOM without the help of good old innerHTML and getElementById.
We need an index.html file like
this one with a basic structure and a single div with the id of root.
This connects to our JavaScript file,
where we can use document getElementById.
Now, we need a way to fill the targeted div with our layout and content.
In React, you can write JSX elements that look very similar to HTML.
But we're not going to implement all of JSX for this example.
Instead, we're going to send strings of HTML content.
Here is an example of a function that calls innerHTML on root and sends it a single div.
But this wouldn't be very easy to code in if we have a lot of layout to add,
so let's find a better way to do this.
Here, I've updated the code so that now
InnerHTML is the result of calling the App function.
The App function returns the same div that we were before,
but now it's also calling
the Welcome function that returns some extra layout and content.
That means that App is a higher-order function,
and both Welcome and App are pure functions.
This will be the basis of building functional DOM manipulations.
Great. Now, we have a function that can act as a staging area for us to collect content.
The Welcome method created some extra content that we didn't have to write in line,
which means that it is effectively a component.
It returns a single piece of the UI and is reusable.
Did you also notice that the Welcome and App
functions comply with functional rules so far?
We have contained our non-functional,
but necessary HTML connectors,
to the first two functions,
which means we can write in a more functional style for the rest of the program.
Now, it's time for you to extend this program in the exercises.